---
title: "Electromagnetic Follow-up to Gravitational Wave Events with the UltraViolet EXplorer (UVEX)"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/UVEX-EMGW
excerpt: 'The Ultraviolet Explorer (UVEX) is expected to fly in 2030 and will have the opportunity — and the rapid near/far ultraviolet (UV) capabilities — to glean unprecedented insight into the bright UV emission present in kilonovae like that of AT 170817gfo, the electromagnetic counterpart to binary neutron star merger GW170817. To do so, it will need to perform prompt target-of-opportunity observations following detection of binary neutron star mergers by the LIGO-Virgo-KAGRA gravitational observatories. We present initial simulations to develop UVEX target-of-opportunity strategies for such events and provide the community with detailed initial estimates of the prospects for and characteristics of UVEX target-of-opportunity observations following gravitational-wave events, considering fiducial scenarios for the fifth and sixth LIGO-Virgo-KAGRA observing runs. Additionally, in light of the relatively few binary neutron star mergers observed since GW170817, we consider variant target-of-opportunity strategies for UVEX to maximize scientific gain in the case of a lowered binary neutron star merger rate.'
date: 2025-12-11
venue: 'Submitted to The Astrophysical Journal'
paperurl: 'sydleggio/sydleggio.github.io/files/UVEX_EMGW_Paper'
citation: 'A. Criswell, S. Leggio, M. Coughlin, et al. ”Electromagnetic Follow-up to Gravitational Wave Events with the UltraViolet
EXplorer (UVEX).” The Astrophysical Journal (submitted)'
---

The contents above will be part of a list of publications, if the user clicks the link for the publication than the contents of section will be rendered as a full page, allowing you to provide more information about the paper for the reader. When publications are displayed as a single page, the contents of the above "citation" field will automatically be included below this section in a smaller font.
